---
title: 'Day One: Starting Out with Next.js'
date: '2022-04-05'
category: 'Learning'
---

Starting out on day one, I decided to get started with my research into Next.js. So far, I haven't even left the main nextjs.org website, their tutorials are incredibly easy to follow along. 


[Next.js Tutorial](https://nextjs.org/learn/basics/create-nextjs-app): To start my research, I throw together their demonstration app: a blog website.


This is something I'm really excited about, I've been wanting to code something like this for a while now. I've used [Ghost](https://ghost.org/) (an open-source blog project) in the past, so I've always wanted to figure out how to design my own blog. I feel like it's a good starting place to learn Next.js.

Going through the first steps of the tutorial I've learned that Next.js is a React framework. It may be a little challenging learning two frameworks at the same time, but I've explored a bit of React in the past so I don't think it will be that bad. 

From what I know of React, it combines the use of HTML, CSS and JavaScript to create robust web applications. 

Next.js is a solution to problems with creating a React application.

Things such as:
- Code needs to be bundled using a bundler such as webpack, then transformed using a compiler like Babel. 
- You require production optimizations such as code splitting
- Some pages might need to be statically pre-rendered for performance and SEO. You may hum and haw between server-side rendering or client-side rendering. 
- You might have to write some server-side code to connect your React app to your data store.

Next.js provides a great developer experience and has lots of built in features that I'm excited to dive into. Things like:
- An intuitive page-based routing system
- Pre-rendering, both static generation (SSG) and server-side rendering (SSR) are supported on a per-page basis.
- Automatic code splitting for faster page loads. 
- Client-side routing with optimized pre-fetching
- API routes to build API endpoints with Serverless functions
- Fully extendable

I installed the required packages to get started and was greeted with their initial landing page. 

Upon completeing the first few tutorials, I discovered that Next.js projects have their own structure to the filesystem behind them. 
The main folders in the file structure are as follows: 
- **pages** folder
  - houses your main *index.js* file
  - your custom error pages
  - later on it will house the **posts** folder 

- **posts** folder 
  - contains Markdown files which become the posts later on in the tutorial

- **public** folder 
  - contains **images** folder which house many images used in the project
  - favicon is located here

- **styles** folder
  - contains any CSS used for the website, but more on CSS in a bit. I found adjusting things to be tricky and once I continued on with the tutorial I learned why. 

- **components** folder 
  - for any additional Next.js tools you want to include. In my project I already have a couple including one to gather a date, and another to allow for my dark-mode feature.

- **lib** folder 
  - for Next.js files that gather and modify data, I think of it kinda like the Model View Controller (MVC) model of programming. Where this would be similar to the Controller portion of MVC. 

I skipped a folder because it is pretty common,  **node_modules**

